<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>Spectacle User's Manual</title>
<author><firstname>Yuri</firstname><surname>Chornoivan</surname>
<contrib>Spectacle man page.</contrib>
<email>yurchor@ukr.net</email></author>
<date>2023-11-26</date>
<releaseinfo>Spectacle 23.08</releaseinfo>
<productname>KDE Applications</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>spectacle</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname>spectacle</refname>
<refpurpose>screenshot capture Utility</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>
<!-- body begins here -->
<refsynopsisdiv id='synopsis'>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>spectacle</command>
<arg choice="opt"><replaceable>Spectacle options</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>


<refsect1 id="description"><title>Description</title>
<para><command>spectacle</command> is a simple application for capturing desktop screenshots. It can capture images of the entire desktop, a single monitor, the currently active window, the window currently under the mouse, or a rectangular region of the screen. The images can then be annotated, printed, sent to other applications for manipulation, or quickly be saved as-is.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="options"><title>Spectacle options</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-h, --help</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays help on commandline options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--help-all</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays help including Qt specific options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v, --version</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays version information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f, --fullscreen</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture the entire desktop (default).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m, --current</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture the current monitor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-a, --activewindow</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture the active window.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-u, --windowundercursor</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture the window currently under the cursor, including parents of pop-up menus.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-t, --transientonly</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture the window currently under the cursor, excluding parents of pop-up menus.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r, --region</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Capture a rectangular region of the screen.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l, --launchonly</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch Spectacle without taking a screenshot.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-b, --background</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Take a screenshot and exit without showing the GUI.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s, --dbus</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Start in DBus-Activation mode.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n, --nonotify</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, do not pop up a notification when the screenshot is taken.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-o, --output <replaceable>fileName</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, save image to specified file <replaceable>fileName</replaceable>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d, --delay <replaceable>delayMsec</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, delay before taking the shot (in milliseconds).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c, --copy-image</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, copy screenshot only to clipboard, unless -o is also used.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-C, --copy-path</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, copy screenshot file path to clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-w, --onclick</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Wait for a click before taking screenshot. Invalidates delay..</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-i, --new-instance</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Starts a new GUI instance of spectacle without registering to DBus.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p, --pointer</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, include pointer in the screenshot.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-e, --no-decoration</option></term>
<listitem>
<para>In background mode, do not include window decorations in the screenshot.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-E, --edit-existing <replaceable>existingFileName</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem>
<para>Open and edit existing screenshot file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="feedback"><title>Feedback</title>
<para>On IRC, irc.libera.chat #kde or via email, kde-graphics-devel@kde.org or on the web, &lt;<ulink url="https://apps.kde.org/spectacle">https://apps.kde.org/spectacle</ulink>&gt;</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<simplelist>
<member>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/spectacle">help:/spectacle</ulink>
(either enter this <acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/spectacle</parameter></userinput>).</member>
<member>kf6options(7)</member>
<member>qt6options(7)</member>
<member>There is also further information available at
<ulink url="https://apps.kde.org/spectacle">https://apps.kde.org/spectacle</ulink></member>
</simplelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1 id="copyright"><title>Copyright</title>
<para>Copyright &copy; 2015 Boudhayan Gupta</para>
<para>License: GNU General Public Version 2 &lt;<ulink url="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html">https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html</ulink>&gt;</para>
</refsect1>
</refentry>

